xql - Initial Commit (#427)
google/weather-tools: xql/README.md

# `xql` - Querying Xarray Datasets with SQL

> Running SQL like quieries on Xarray Datasets. (Only works on zarr datasets for now.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running SQL like queries on Xarray Datasets.
> Note: For now, we support only zarr datasets.
```

# Supported Features

> * **Select Variables** - From a large dataset having hundreds of variables select only needed variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **`select` Variables** - From a large dataset having hundreds of variables, select only needed variables.
```

> * **Apply Where Clouse** - A general where condition like SQL. Applicable for queries which includes data for specific time range or only for specific regions. (Conditions on coordinates suppoted for now.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Apply `where` clause** - A general where condition like SQL. Applicable for queries which includes data for specific time range or only for specific regions. 
> Note: For now, we support conditions on coordinates.
```

> * **Group By And Aggregate Functions** - Aggregate functions `AVG()`, `MIN()`, `MAX()` suppoted after applying groupby on any coordinate like time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **`group by` and `aggregate` Functions** - Aggregate functions `AVG()`, `MIN()`, `MAX()` supported after applying `group-by` on any coordinate like time.
```

# Usage

Install required packages
```
pip install -r xql/requirements.txt
```

Jump into xql
```
python xql/main.py
```
---

Running a simple query on dataset. Comparing with SQL a data variable is like a column and table is like a dataset.
```
SELECT evaporation, geopotential_at_surface, temperature FROM '{TABLE}'
```

> Replace `{TABLE}` with dataset uri. Ex. `gs://gcp-public-data-arco-era5/ar/full_37-1h-0p25deg-chunk-1.zarr-v3`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `{TABLE}` with dataset uri. Eg. `gs://gcp-public-data-arco-era5/ar/full_37-1h-0p25deg-chunk-1.zarr-v3`.
```
